So the next topic will discuss will be how to assign easier to remember names so that we do not have to remember IP addresses
When we want to talk to a particular Oster node on a network or on the internet
In particular said that principal system that enables us to do
This is called DNS for the domain name system
What it allows us to do is work with names in place of the numerical IP addresses that the actual underlined protocols
Like the IP protocol will depend upon its also set up in a hierarchical way for scalability and a variety of other reasons so that we can reasonably refer to these names
And then also what address is and servers would be corresponding to them
It also incorporates cashing so that we have mappings from
Names tour from IP addresses
And then we'll talk about some of the inner workings of DNS as well
such as DNS resolvers and servers how queries and DNS and the DNS protocol work there iterative and recursive versions will talk about how cashing works
And when timeouts Whitaker
we'll talk a little bit about how to do reverse lookups and will show some demonstration of using the dick utility hour
which is a Unix base tool for carrying information within DNS
Let's just quickly compare hostname to versus IP addresses
So whose names will be in demonic name that we appreciate us humans
where as as we've already discussed IP addresses at length
Those are numerical address for those that are necessary for routers
Host names will
of course
be variable length and will now use the full alphabet of characters
Where is IP
addresses
were fixed length and always responded under the Hardison
Binary number
The host names are going to provide little if any information about a location where as IP addresses were defined in a hierarchical way and they were related to the hosts location so that we can perform that routing process to get information where it needs to go
So do some examples of course some hosts names like www.cnn.com BBC
Co
Uk would provide a little location information and these are coarser easier to remember than the numerical quantities and IP addresses below
How do we separate the naming from the addressing
And why do we do this
Well
of course names are easier to remember
The other reason is that underneath the addresses could change
Perhaps we change the server that's running the toasting the website CNN.com
or perhaps we change a service provider
The other thing is a name could actually about to multiple IP addresses
perhaps for load balancing or scalability reasons
We have multiple replicas of a website
So handling load balancing a reducing late and see if perhaps we put a server hosting CNN.com saying different country so that there is always one close by to people likely to try to access that server
We could also do things like Taylor the content based on this based on the requesters location or identity
and we could have multiple names for the same address within this so that we could have a Leah says
and there may be good reasons to do that
So
ww.w
if that's prefixed in a domain name
I typically would correspond to a web server
But if you just access CNN.com
that probably also works and gets directed to the web server
Whereas CNN.com might
it doesn't have to direct to that web server
So
how do we
how does this work
Roughly
how does this mapping between names and addresses work
So
originally
this was done in a host file
I'm working with a flat namespace
Typically under Unix should be in / at see
such hosts and then an organization
One of the first organizations on the internet in the web
SRI in Menlo Park
We keep a Master Copy
So then others would need to download this file regularly
but this isn't going to scale
right
If there are a lot of lookups and if one organization was keeping track of this
it could overload that server and it would lead to a single point of failure
So this will motivate how DNS works and why we need a distributed and hierarchical collection of servers
So that this would scale up